Next, we will take a look
at IO redirection.
Before we start, let us
get familiar with the concept
of standard streams in Linux.
There are three data streams
created when you launch
a Linux command.
Stdin is the standard input string.
This accepts text as its input.
Text output from the command
that you see printed on
your screen is delivered via
the stdout or the standard
out stream.
Error messages from the command
are sent through
the standard error stream,
with IO redirection.
The standard input-output
and error can be redirected
to text files.
Let's see how to do that next.
To redirect standard output to
a file instead of printing it
on the screen, we can use
the forward arrow symbol
followed by the name of the file.
The forward arrow symbol
overwrites the contents of
the file with the stdout.
If you want to append stdout
to an existing file,
use the double forward
arrow symbol.
In this case, the string,
"This is the Bash shell"
is appended to the existing shell
.txt file.
In order to redirect just
the error messages,
we need to use the number 2
followed by a forward arrow symbol,
and then the name of the file
in which the errors will be written.
If the file doesn't exist,
a new one will be created.
Otherwise, the file
will be overwritten.
To append the standard error
to an existing file,
use the number 2 double
forward symbol.
If you want your command
to execute and not print
error messages on the screen,
even if it generates
a standard error, you can redirect
to /dev/null, like this.
/dev/null is referred to as
the bit bucket.
The place where you dump anything
you don't need, in this case,
the standard error, which we
do not want to be printed
on the screen.
In the previous section,
we saw how to redirect
data streams to a text file.
These files can later be read
or processed by a different command.
Redirecting data to a file
to be later consumed by another
command can be a tedious process.
Fortunately, we can overcome this
by making use of
command-line pipes.
Command-line pipes allow
the linking of multiple commands.
In simple terms, pipes allow
the first command standard out
to be used as the standard input
for the second command.
The pipes are defined using
the vertical bar symbol.
Here's an example,
the sample.txt file contains
two lines.
The first line is, "Hello there!"
The second line is
"Nice to see you here!"
By making use of the pipe,
the output of the command grep
hello sample.txt becomes
the standard input for the less
command that follows
after the operator.
In this case, the less command will
only display the pattern matched
by the grep command before
the pipe as compared
to the entire file.
Command-line pipes can be used
as many times as needed to link
together commands, as long as
the commands themselves are
used with the correct syntax.
Another useful command to work
with standard input and standard
output is the tee command.
Consider the same example
we saw a bit earlier while
redirecting output to a file,
instead of the redirect operator,
we can use a command-line pipe
followed by the tee command
and the file name to
redirect the output.
The difference is that with tee,
the standard output is still
printed on the screen before
overwriting the contents of
the file with the same string.
Use tee -a option to append
the file instead of overwriting it.